Friends here our concept is working with echo command S0.
This echo command is one of the most basic and frequently used command in our Unix world.
And it is used for us to display a message,
to display a command output,
and to display a variable value.
And here you can use your echo command
on your command line and also in your shell scripts.
So first we will see how to use your echo command on your command line.
Then we'll go with shell scripts.
Let me open my terminal. C.
Suppose I have a message called Welcome
to shell scripting message I want to display on my command line.
Then you have to use simply ecospace message.
That's a.
And for this message,
you can also use quotations.
That two, it may be double quotations or single quotations.
But for time being, I am using only double quotations
will discuss abort single quotation in our further stations, not now.
So simply echo, start with quotation, right?
You got the message and then close with your quotations.
That's fine.
This is the first uses of your ego command.
Now suppose if I write a coalesce,
we know that Alice is a command.
But by default, whenever if you write something in quotations or without quotations,
that is like a message.
That's why if I'd done this,
if I run this, see there is a,
it is simply displaying a list.
But using echo command,
you can also execute commands.
So if you want to execute any command with the echo command,
you how to write a dollar,
then open parenthesis, and then close parenthesis.
Not only ls command,
you can run any command with the syntax.
Be clear, echo, start the quotation, right?
A dollar than open parenthesis, you are command,
then close parenthesis, and then close your petition, let's say.
And you can also use the echo command to display a variable value.
So as of now, you might not know about variable. Don't worry.
Suppose if I run e and v command,
there are some default variables with the work system.
Suppose host name. What is the shell?
Right?
Simply sum variable, it is having some value.
Now, I can also use echo command to display variable value.
Suppose there is a variable called user default variable with your system C there isn't.
And there is a variable called shell.
Capital letters. Now here,
shell or user are variables for your operating system and the two default variables.
And to display any variable value,
you can use ACO command.
That's it.
Now let me read a simple shell script to understand the uses of Yoko commands.
So before going to write,
always, please check this.
So we are having our bash in this location.
Let me copy this because I need to write the very first line
as shebang line or interpreter line, right?
So usage of eco command not SH.
So I am writing the very first line as shebang line,
that is my interpreter or my shell.
Fine.
See I'm using a core.
This is a simple message.
Then I can also write one more line in the next line, echo.
This is one more lying.
In the same script.
You can also use one more time you're echo command to execute.
Suppose some commands, let's say I want to write,
I need to display the date command output.
I can also use to display some variable value.
Let's say I have a variable called user.
Then I want to display that,
then US dollar, then user, friends.
Suppose if you don't know what is available, don't worry.
We have a detailed discussion on that.
We'll discuss in that session about one variables for timing.
Just concentrate on how to use echo command.
That's it.
Now let me save this and run this.
So before going to run, you have to provide execution permission for that.
Now let me run your script C,
that is, this is your script.
And you are getting the output for that this way.
And one more thing, whenever if you are running your shell, skip,
your shell script will run your code line by line.
I mean the very first line anywhere that is as she bundling,
it won't execute simply your operating system will understand that
the remaining lanes has to execute with the help of Bash shell.
The very first thing is, firstly,
two legs could this line,
then after that it will go and execute second line,
third line, then fourth line.
That's it.
So that's a way you are getting your output.
Now, suppose instead of displaying simply here automation and here date,
i want to modify the script in this way.
See the result.
What I'm doing is today's date 0s.
That is a message space.
Then anyway, you know how to execute a command with the help of echo command.
Echo.
Today DDS, dollar parenthesis did.
Then, you know, dollar using nothing but the currently logged in user.
Now I am writing the username is not to know.
Let me save this and run this code before running.
Just see the core.
Now I'm running that shelves.
That's a fine.
Now this is very simple echo command.
Actually how complete syntax for your echo command that is
a co hyphen e or Ionian or ivan capitally,
These are optional and arguments.
Arguments are also optional.
As of no, we are running
our echo command by providing any message or some command or some variable.
I can also directly use echo command without providing anything,
but it will display an empty line.
You can also use this in your shell script,
and you can use any number of echo
command's without any options or without any arguments.
C, I used two times without any options and
arguments so that it is going to display to empty lines.
Now see the result. So this is
because of to echo command's without any options and arguments,
arguments in nothing but any messages or command or variable.
That's a fine.
Nobody here we are having some options,
hyphen, hyphen yen or ivan category.
You can also club all these three options or
daytime or any two options, or any one option.
Fine.
Now very first one is hyphenation.
So whenever if you use ACO with iPhone Yen,
what it is doing.
Simply, the trailing newline is suppressed.
That means C, the result.
Suppose I am writing here echo hyphen v, sorry, hyphen Yen.
When, whenever if I write eco hyphen Yan,
this message will display directly first.
After that, without a hyphen Yan actually this output will display in the next line.
But because of this iPhone yen,
your cursor won't go to next line.
What our, the executing command is there in the next line,
that output will be displayed here itself.
That's it.
Now let me run and see the result.
C. You are having iPhone yen for this is one more line.
Yes, you are getting, this is one more line.
But after that, generally,
your cursor has to go to next line.
But because of this iPhone Yann,
your cursor won't go to next line and whatever it
is there in the next lane that will be executed in the same line.
That's a.
So that is the uses of iPhone him sometimes
while writing or shell script for our designing purpose,
I mean, to showcase our shells good,
we will use hyphens and option as well.
That's fine. Now, second thing, hyphen e option.
So it is used to execute backslash escape characters.
Before going to use that,
let me explain a very simple example.
Suppose I am writing one more,
shall skip one more width.
Then I'm writing very first-line shebang line, user bin bash.
I am writing this is a first line.
Then this is a second line.
Let me run this and see the result first.
And having to echo command's,
that's a reason you're going to get output in two lines.
Yes.
Now, if we observe immediately or writing to echo combines,
then instead of writing immigrated to echo command's What I will use.
I will use only one echo command.
And I will let this information also in the first echo command.
But I wanted to get output in two lines.
First, let me write and see the result.
So that is the first line,
then this is the second line.
And anyway, as of now if you run your shells k,
you are having one echo command and with some message.
But I want to display this message in one line and this message in the next line.
But as of now it is not possible.
But I can use in slash n special backslash escape character.
And because of that actually the next information,
whatever you are having, offers slash and that has to go to next line.
But see the result.
It is not going on. It is this link slash and as it is.
But if you want to exclude slash n means if you want to send your cursor to next line,
then you have to use hyphen e option for EVA.
Echo command, execute US special characters and see the result.
Now, now you're getting your information in two lines,
even though if you are using only one echo command because of
Slash n, And we are executing that slash and with the help of iPhone Yi option.
Likewise, I mean like slash and you are having
different types of backslash escape characters.
So these are the list.
So now slash B is nothing but to send your cursor one equation back slash
t. To provide a horizontal tab slash v2 provide vertical tab slash shape.
It will create some sound alert.
So you whenever, if you press on your, I mean,
if you press tab on your terminal,
it will create some songs.
That sound will be created by slash,
a slash or carries return slash she.
Suppress any further output.
Let me show you some of them are.
Let me go with one by one.
I am displaying, I mean,
I'm executing directly on your command line.
Same thing you can use in your shell script as well.
First thing, echo, IF only 12 I am writing.
And before one, sorry,
after one, I'm writing slash b.
Because of that, what will happen?
First?
It will display one way anyone.
Then your cursor, we come back one position.
And it will start writing too.
So that E is war, right?
With the first thing,
it will display up to one,
then your cursor is waiting here on your command line.
But because of slash B,
your cursor come to evolution one patient back.
Suppose you've used to slash b, then c.
That is it.
The same way you how carriage written.
Suppose I am writing hello, slash are high.
And see the result now. First it will display hello.
But because of slash,
your cursor equation will come to very first to place.
And from there onwards it will try to write the data that is high.
So hedge and I0 will replace in the place of
H and E. Unremitting information will be there as these.
Suppose you have second, what is,
is having more length a compatible first-world,
then the first word is completely replaced with the second one.
And the suppose if I use slash C,
then it will suppress the remaining output.
It will display only the first information.
Then after slash whatever the information you are having that won't display.
That's it.
So like ways we weren't having different backslash escape characters.
Yeah, let me show you slash p and slash We as well.
Suppose ACO hyphen e, Hello.
I'm writing slash p.
Now see there is a tab space.
But if I write slash v,
it is a vertical tab.
Hello in one line,
then what he called the next line.
In the next line, it will provide vertical tab and then we'll display shell.
So far, sometimes to design your output,
you can take slash v. And one more thing.
Last thing, suppose, suppose if I write two times two slash here,
then see the result.
If you want to escape the purpose of your special characters,
you are backslash characters.
Then before that character,
you have to write two slashes so that it won't execute.
It will skip and will display as a DES.
That's it.
Fine.
Then the last one,
the last option is capital E.
Capital E is nothing but your default echo command C.
Suppose if i write echo,
hi slash n And hello,
then slash and will not execute because we are not using hyphen e option.
But if I use a hyphen e option, it will execute.
But even though if you use iPhone year option and if you want,
if you don't want to exclude us special character, then use capitally.
Nazi, simply, capital E option is nothing but normal echo command without any option.
That's it.
Fine.
Now, we are having one more uses of your echo command that is
just to display your messages or output in terms of colors.
So if you want to display your output in terms of colors,
you how to use again hyphen e option,
then you have to provide some color-code.
See that what I am doing this Jaco,
be clear, if you want to execute your color codes,
you how to use a hyphen e option.
And quotations are mandatory.
That's a reason for all times I'm using double quotations for your echo command.
C. Sometimes you don't need to use your double quotations.
Say suppose if i write simply echo Hi, it will work.
Sorry. Echo high. It will work.
Even though if you use quotations, it will work.
But for color codes,
hyphen e and quotations are mandatory.
And that's a reason from starting onwards I am
taking double quotations for your echo command.
So simply echo hyphen slash 0 double three.
This is a syntax for your color codes.
And let me write, suppose 32 Young and I'm writing hello.
And see that isn't what you are getting.
You're getting your output in terms of green.
And also you are terminally, you are getting,
your terminal color is also you are getting as green.
But I want to get my terminal coloring the default.
That means once if you display your message,
you how to reset your color.
So the default color,
e's g, o, young.
That's now see there isn't only or a message will display in terms of colors.
Right?
Suppose if you want to display your color in terms of thick,
then you have to take here instead of 0
to suppose if I take four underlying,
right, let me take instead of 21.
Actually one is for thick, thick color, right?
So let us actually, you are having different types of color codes.
So these are the list of colorCode.
Anyway, I will share these scores so that you can understand how to
use different types of color codes and different styles.
Okay?
Okay, it's finally write,
let me write a simple shell script with echo command.
Echo shell script dot SH.
So what I'm doing is first bin bash,
echo, I am writing. Welcome too.
Then I want to write echo with colors.
I wonder right? Then slash 0 DoubleTree.
Ben.
Let me take thick color.
Let me take 31, yum.
Yum. If you provide some space,
that space will preserve on one output also.
That's why immediately offered him I'm writing.
Now we are good with usage of echo command.
And after, I mean,
at the end of you are at the end of your message,
please do follow the step that is just to make your default color,
set the color as your default,
that is simply m. Now let me save this and let me provide the execution permissions.
Just run your shell script C that isn't.
So one message without color and second meshes with colors, let's say, okay.
Okay, thank you. If you have any doubts,
please post your query.